Update filters documentation (#198)
OpenTermsArchive/docs: content/terms/explanation/filters.md

---
title: "Filters"
weight: 3
---

# Filters

> Filters solve noise issues in terms versions that cannot be addressed with direct selection or removal of content using CSS selectors or range selectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filters solve [noise]({{< relref "/terms/guideline/declaring/#usual-noise" >}}) issues in terms versions that cannot be addressed with direct selection or removal of content using CSS selectors or range selectors.
```

## Why filters are needed

> Web pages often contain dynamically generated content or content that cannot be targeted with CSS selectors that creates noise in the archive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web pages often contain dynamically generated content or content that cannot be targeted with CSS selectors that creates noise in the recorded version, for example:
```

Reviewer: Or `terms changes history`. It must be consistent with how it is discussed on other pages.

- Tracking parameters in URLs, for example `utm_source`, `utm_medium`, …
- Content that are date based and can change between visits, for example "Updated X days ago" can be converted to a "Last updated on YYYY-MM-DD".
- Dynamic elements with changing classes or IDs

Without filters, this dynamic content creates changes that are not meaningful to the terms.

## How filters work

Filters are JavaScript functions that receive a JSDOM document instance and can manipulate the DOM structure directly. They modify the document structure and content in-place and they run sequentially in the order specified in the declaration.

## Filter design principles

When designing filters, follow these core principles:

- **Be specific**: Target only the noise you want to remove. Avoid broad selectors that might accidentally remove important content.
- **Be safe**: Ensure your filter doesn't accidentally remove important content. Always check that the generated version still contains the whole terms content.
- **Be idempotent**: Your filter should produce the same result even if run multiple times on its own output. This ensures consistency and prevents unexpected behavior.

> - **Be efficient**: Use efficient DOM queries and avoid unnecessary operations. Process only the elements you need to modify.

Reviewer: It's not blocking, but examples would help to make it more concrete.

> ## When to use filters

Reviewer: _Why_ and _When_ sections seems to be a little bit similar. I wonder if it could be grouped together.
